hi guys in this video I will tell you
about the 4 best materials for the
kitchen worktop you will see the characteristics of
these materials, their strengths and weaknesses
and I will also tell you my opinion on
each material
if you have to choose the kitchen worktop
watch the video carefully
leave me a like and  Let's start before
talking about the materials, let's see what
characteristics the ideal kitchen top should have,
so what are the
requirements that we usually look for in the
kitchen worktop, in my opinion
there are five requirements:
resistance,
aesthetics, practicality of both cleaning
and maintenance  hygiene and
repairability are qualities that depend
above all on the structure of the
materials and can also
significantly influence the price per linear meter.
By the term resistance I mean
resistance to abrasion and scratches,
stains, absorption of liquids, heat and
thermal shock, acids and yellowing,
you will discover that certain  materials are
almost unassailable while others
require more attention some
materials offer greater
customization with wide ranges of
colors effects surface finishes and
thicknesses of the top while with others
you have a limited choice a
clear example of the limited choice is the
steel top is usually available
in  'glossy effect which is a sort of
standard and is not a very
sartorial material there are other finishes
such as brushed or
satin but it is necessary to find
a specialized company practicality and
hygiene vary based on the curiosity
of the shelf that  determines the degree of
absorption of the liquid and therefore
first of all oils and drinks.
Compact and absorbent tops such as stoneware
are not afraid of prolonged stagnation and
are more functional and easy to clean
if we compare them to the
porous structures of some natural stones as
they could  being marble the concept
of repairability has made its way
especially in recent years
after the introduction of fenix but in
reality it is not a recent concept a top
is repairable or regenerable as long as it is
possible to remove
surface scratches or engravings on the top
let's move on to the best materials  for the
kitchen top on the market you will find
many materials but most of the
demand is concentrated on these four
large families: laminates, quartz,
stoneware and sintered stones and solid
surfaces.
Then there are other materials and I am
referring to the ones you are seeing but
for these  the demand is much
lower and therefore my analysis will be
on the four main families let
's start with laminates the most
used materials in Italian kitchens laminates
include a series of products divided
into three categories basic laminates hpl
and fenix
among these products there are some
differences so if you are in the showroom and
they offer you a laminate top you must
immediately ask which category it
belongs to. the basic laminate is composed
of a sheet of layers of
impregnated paper and thermosetting resins which
is positioned on a support of
wood particles
this product is the  cheapest in the
category and in jargon it is also
called laminates no to distinguish it from
the best laminates they are the tops that you
usually find in
large-scale retail stores such as
which has and world convenience
if we put the price aside the
main advantage is
customization  of the foil which can
reproduce many effects and colours,
these shelves are waterproof,
they resist impacts quite well from
objects which are not sharp and not too
heavy and also resist
common food and drink stains well, but
heat resistance is poor
so you always have to use a
trivet  some basic laminates
also have a decent quality/
price ratio but then the duration depends a lot
on the quality of the product and on the
habits of use and maintenance for
example the tops made with
poor renata paper over time tend to
fade, yellow and even
water stagnates  prolonged periods can create problems
not so much on the surface which, as I
said, is waterproof but rather on the
joints and edges of the tops which
are the most critical points. Let's raise the bar a bit
and move on to HPL, i.e.
thicker laminates produced at high temperatures.
pressures which are laminates of
superior quality and resistance that
you can find in the kitchens of many
famous companies there are two types of hp l
non-stratified and laminated lacquer pl
non-stratified is made up of a sheet
on a wood agglomerate support
the laminate is composed of
various sheets joined and pressurized so
as to obtain a self-supporting surface of
good thickness and with a homogeneous structure
because as you can see this surface is
all in paste it is all in mass
generally the laminate has a
higher cost than they have laminated the
peculiarity of the hpl as you  I was saying
the resistance is
better at resisting scratches and abrasions,
stains, water and even heat and they
also offer a good customization of
effects and colors of the foil, among
other things with an HP L you also have the
possibility of creating a kitchen with
some also combined with the monolithic top
in essence and with the stratified acca pl
you can also create
integrated sinks with the same finish as the
top. fenix represents the latest
evolution of laminates, it was
introduced in 2013 and is produced with
nano technologies, in addition to some advantages
of the others mentioned, there are also some benefits
exclusive and the main one that
distinguishes it is its repairability, the
superficial scratches of nails, blades, keys and
dishes can be eliminated
infinite times thanks to a
hot repair system that you can find on the company website.
It is a repair system that uses
fenix nanotechnology. I
repeat.  to be safe you can
only remove light scratches that do not cut or
affect the top deeply.
another exclusive feature is the
sensation to the touch
because the fenix mice are very
pleasant to touch, they give a
sensation of softness and the surfaces
are also l  The difference to the
touch compared to other laminates is that you
can perceive the variety of
thickness and colors is discreet, however the
finish is strictly opaque with
almost all uniform tones.
There are no particular effects such as
the wood effect or
the  marble effect this is undoubtedly
one of the most popular and famous products
and you will find it on the shelves of many
kitchen manufacturers, including high-end ones
and the fenix is also available in a
stratified version 1 stratified
the laminates are finished let's move on to the analysis
of the quartz the kitchen shelves  in quartz
are composed of quartz powder or grits
for over 90 percent
mineral loads and pigments and a small
percentage of binding resins the appearance
of many quartz countertops is identical to that
of real natural stones such as
marble and granite
but the  The first difference is in the
composition because, unlike
stones with a quartz top, you do not
have a completely
natural material. The fact of not purchasing a
completely natural material in this
case is an advantage because the
technical performance of quartz mice
is better than real ones.  stones
precisely thanks to the structure,
the resistance of these shelves
is quite high, quartz is one of the
hardest minerals present in nature
and the tops resist impacts, scratches and
abrasions well, they are compact surfaces
without curiosity and the level of
absorption of liquids is  very low
as a result the resistance to
common
food and drink stains is good especially
in the glossy finishes the
waterproof structure also has a positive effect
on the ease of cleaning and among
other things some worktops are subjected to
special treatments which increase the
resistance to stains, liquids and  halos the
level of customization is
excellent and you can choose between dozens
of shades finishes therefore glossy matt
bush hammered and also thicknesses and
dimensions of the slabs one point
against the material is that it can
only withstand other temperatures for short periods
of time so you must avoid
prolonged contact  with hot pots
or fryers always use
trivets from this point of view the
resistance is inferior to stoneware the
next material in my analysis
stoneware shelves belong to the
ceramic family ceramic is a
reliable material that we know well
and that in various structures already  we use igres for
floors, coverings and
bathroom fixtures, we raise
the bar further because they are
products that offer many benefits
and few disadvantages, the first plus point
is undoubtedly the extreme
resistance, they are tops that can withstand
almost anything
they resist scratches and abrasions just
think about what
stoneware floors have to withstand and thanks to the
very compact structure which is
practically absorbent they don't even fear
stains from food, drinks and chemical agents
another peculiarity is the indifference to
heat sources
contact with hot pots and pans
does not produce any effect
you can place them on the tops without causing
damage or thermal shock to the surfaces
although obviously it is good practice to
use the trivet I would also like to point out
that the material resists
ultraviolet rays and freezing temperatures
so if necessary you can  also use it
for an outdoor kitchen on an aesthetic level
you have a good choice there are
several themes there is the marble effect wood
concrete and so on and there are various
shades and various thicknesses that
allow you to furnish a
modern or classic kitchen remember that
we are talking  of ceramics are
100 percent hygienic and
safe natural compounds. The only flaw in stoneware tops is the
cost because with this material
we are in a medium-high price range,
certainly more expensive than many
quartz, the fourth and final material
of my  analysis is the solid surface, a
term that unites a series of
products with very similar structures and characteristics
that you find on the market
under various registered trademarks,
the most famous of which is Corian which is made up
of one third of acrylic resin and two
thirds of natural mineral substances such as
the three-layer aluminum which is
derived from bauxite the other solid
surfaces have small differences
in the structure but the properties are
similar if not identical
the first great benefit of these
products is the extreme ductility these
materials are easily worked
because they are thermoformable  in practice,
thanks to the heat, they can be shaped as
desired and can take on any
shape, including curved ones.
Another peculiarity is the possibility of
creating a surface with
imperceptible joints. The final look is that
of a very clean
and minimal continuous surface and the same goes for
the  sink basin which can form a
single unit with the top without corners the
material resists impacts from
non-sharp objects while the blow of
a blade can create scratches and
incisions
the good news is that the surface can be
restored however unlike the
fenix  you can eliminate yes and
superficial scratches and deep incisions
repairs are carried out with kits
supplied by the manufacturers
or with the intervention of
company technicians for damage plus
the structure of the shelves is compact, non-
porous and does not encourage growth  of
mold or germs the only ones from surface is an
inert and non-toxic product which is
also used in the medical field
for example in operating rooms as you
can see from the sample soap bars
the range of tones and effects is boundless
even if in the end nine times out of ten
the classic color is chosen,
so to speak white, an aspect to
underline is the price
these products are very beautiful but the
cost is higher than the materials
you have seen so far
now you know the characteristics of
what in my opinion are the four
best materials for the  kitchen top
so it's time to tell you my
opinion on each of these materials
starting from laminates first of all
let's dispel a fairly widespread belief
a laminate top is not poor
even if we are talking about a mine vat a
laminate kitchen worktop notes good quality
lasts for decades as long as  is used and
cleaned correctly over time it will lose
a bit of strength
this is normal and any
sharp edges could stick but on the other hand
no indestructible material and
in any case considering the prices per
linear meter of some basic laminates
I would say that it is a good compromise with
the  acca pl
you already have a better product that
resists wear and high temperatures better,
we are talking about temperatures of 170 180 degrees
and if you want a robust and functional top
then it is a good solution, it will not have
the elegance of a solid surface or the
hardness of  a stoneware but the product does
its job very well
the latest arrival is fenix
undoubtedly the most sponsored and discussed
in the category on this material
you will often find conflicting opinions
there are excellent reviews
contrasted with testimonials from
disappointed customers
so the question arises  spontaneous
where is the truth let's say that here it
depends on your expectations and on
how you will use the fenix topping
in fact the fenix has good
resistance the micro scratches are
repairable and the surfaces are beautiful to
see and also to touch the
anti-fingerprint issue is  valid as long as your
fingers are clean because
oil, grease and food fingerprints will leave marks
and marks on the top as
happens with other materials, but
if someone sells it to you as
indestructible, perfect, superior to
all other materials
then stop  and do some
reflection because perhaps you risk
purchasing a product that will not live
up to your expectations and
needs. Quartz is
an excellent choice. I
know several people who have been
using them for years and are satisfied.
However, I have to clarify the range.
of quarter prices is wide and the
entry level products
if we talk about tailoring and quality
of the composite cannot compete with
the top of the range
let's take an example the
specialized companies that use certain
technologies can offer
extra long informed tops up to 300 25 cm
instead of the  300 cm standard and the
depths of the tops are also greater with
these companies
you can choose more finishes
especially those with veins such as
the calacatta effect which is quite
popular and are finishes that are more
difficult to find in other companies
such as IKEA for example than in the range of
quartz worktops also entrances however it is
my first choice
at the moment I consider it the
best worktop for the kitchen
because the maximum in terms of
resistance and practicality and it also offers
good customization I
recommend it if you are very demanding
and want a product  durable, easy to
clean and does not cause too many worries, the
category of solid surfaces is a
particular one and is a bit separate because
usually those who choose these products
do so first and foremost for
aesthetic reasons, as we have seen, the tops
are very beautiful and you can also have a
washbasin fused with the top also available
with drainer or grooves for the
drainer but in my opinion they are perfect
for designer kitchens,
elegant kitchens and perhaps with
measurements and particular shapes which are
difficult to create with
inflexible materials
if you remember at the beginning  in the video I
also mentioned other materials and two of
these were steel and
natural stones which in my opinion deserve a few
words because they are niche materials
but they are important and are always
in demand, I start with steel which is an
extremely practical, easy to waterproof surface
to clean, very hygienic and which
resists heat well, among other things,
steel is a material that in itself does
not age and therefore one might
wonder why it is rarely used
because these surfaces are
easily scratched so we rarely see it
in a domestic kitchen  while it is
always used in professional ones,
apart from this defect it is one of the best
worktops on the market I
recommend it especially if you love
cooking if you often make bread or
desserts and if you are looking for a
practical worktop the most used natural stones
are instead the  marble and granite which in the
past were highly sought after in
recent years, however, the demand has dropped
significantly and the reason is linked to the
delicacy of these materials which
partly depends on the structure of the
stones, in
fact they are rather
porous structures and prolonged contact with
colored liquids, oil and
acidic substances can damage surfaces
almost irreparably,
which is why manufacturers have preferred to
focus on other more
resistant and more practical materials.
Before saying goodbye, I want to tell you a few
things. First of all, write a comment
and tell me which one
you are thinking of.  buy or which
mouse have you already bought and how
do you feel about it
because your experience can help
other users then I wanted to thank the
guys at bezze furnishings who
gave me a hand in putting together
this super guide they specialize in the
design, sale and assembly of
kitchens and if  you are from the padua area and
you want a durable and quality kitchen
you can contact vezze and in the description
you will find their references if the video
was helpful
leave a like it will not be the last
video on kitchens and furnishings
so subscribe to the  channel see you
on the next episode
here on desire to renovate greetings
everyone from Lorenzo hello guys